README.rst, before:

================================================================================
pyexcel-io - Let you focus on data, instead of file formats
================================================================================

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pyexcel/pyexcel.github.io/master/images/patreon.png
   :target: https://www.patreon.com/pyexcel

.. image:: https://api.bountysource.com/badge/team?team_id=288537
   :target: https://salt.bountysource.com/teams/chfw-pyexcel

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/pyexcel/pyexcel-io.svg?branch=master
   :target: http://travis-ci.org/pyexcel/pyexcel-io

.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/pyexcel/pyexcel-io/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/pyexcel/pyexcel-io

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/gitterHQ/gitter.svg
   :target: https://gitter.im/pyexcel/Lobby

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/pyexcel-io/badge/?version=latest
   :target: http://pyexcel-io.readthedocs.org/en/latest/

Support the project
================================================================================

If your company has embedded pyexcel and its components into a revenue generating
product, please support me on `patreon <https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=5537627>`_
or `bounty source <https://salt.bountysource.com/teams/chfw-pyexcel>`_ to maintain
the project and develop it further.

If you are an individual, you are welcome to support me too and for however long
you feel like. As my backer, you will receive
`early access to pyexcel related contents <https://www.patreon.com/pyexcel/posts>`_.

And your issues will get prioritized if you would like to become my patreon as `pyexcel pro user`.

With your financial support, I will be able to invest
a little bit more time in coding, documentation and writing interesting posts.


Known constraints
==================

Fonts, colors and charts are not supported.

Introduction
================================================================================

**pyexcel-io** provides **one** application programming interface(API) to read
and write the data in excel format, import the data into and export the data
from database. It provides support for csv(z) format, django database and
sqlalchemy supported databases. Its supported file formats are extended to cover
"xls", "xlsx", "ods" by the following extensions:

.. _file-format-list:
.. _a-map-of-plugins-and-file-formats:

.. table:: A list of file formats supported by external plugins

   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================
   Package name              Supported file formats  Dependencies     Python versions
   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================
   `pyexcel-io`_            csv, csvz [#f1]_, tsv,                    2.6, 2.7, 3.3,
                            tsvz [#f2]_                               3.4, 3.5, 3.6
                                                                      pypy
   `pyexcel-xls`_           xls, xlsx(read only),   `xlrd`_,          same as above
                            xlsm(read only)         `xlwt`_
   `pyexcel-xlsx`_          xlsx                    `openpyxl`_       same as above
   `pyexcel-ods3`_          ods                     `pyexcel-ezodf`_, 2.6, 2.7, 3.3, 3.4
                                                    lxml              3.5, 3.6
   `pyexcel-ods`_           ods                     `odfpy`_          same as above
   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================

.. table:: Dedicated file reader and writers

   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================
   Package name              Supported file formats  Dependencies     Python versions
   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================
   `pyexcel-xlsxw`_         xlsx(write only)        `XlsxWriter`_     Python 2 and 3
   `pyexcel-xlsxr`_         xlsx(read only)         lxml              same as above
   `pyexcel-odsr`_          read only for ods, fods lxml              same as above
   `pyexcel-htmlr`_         html(read only)         lxml,html5lib     same as above
   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================


.. _pyexcel-io: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-io
.. _pyexcel-xls: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xls
.. _pyexcel-xlsx: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xlsx
.. _pyexcel-ods: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-ods
.. _pyexcel-ods3: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-ods3
.. _pyexcel-odsr: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-odsr
.. _pyexcel-xlsxw: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xlsxw
.. _pyexcel-xlsxr: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xlsxr
.. _pyexcel-htmlr: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-htmlr

.. _xlrd: https://github.com/python-excel/xlrd
.. _xlwt: https://github.com/python-excel/xlwt
.. _openpyxl: https://bitbucket.org/openpyxl/openpyxl
.. _XlsxWriter: https://github.com/jmcnamara/XlsxWriter
.. _pyexcel-ezodf: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-ezodf
.. _odfpy: https://github.com/eea/odfpy


In order to manage the list of plugins installed, you need to use pip to add or remove
a plugin. When you use virtualenv, you can have different plugins per virtual
environment. In the situation where you have multiple plugins that does the same thing
in your environment, you need to tell pyexcel which plugin to use per function call.
For example, pyexcel-ods and pyexcel-odsr, and you want to get_array to use pyexcel-odsr.
You need to append get_array(..., library='pyexcel-odsr').

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] zipped csv file
.. [#f2] zipped tsv file

If you need to manipulate the data, you might do it yourself or use its brother
library `pyexcel <https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel>`__ .

If you would like to extend it, you may use it to write your own
extension to handle a specific file format.




Installation
================================================================================

You can install pyexcel-io via pip:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install pyexcel-io


or clone it and install it:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-io.git
    $ cd pyexcel-io
    $ python setup.py install



Development guide
================================================================================

Development steps for code changes

#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-io.git
#. cd pyexcel-io

Upgrade your setup tools and pip. They are needed for development and testing only:

#. pip install --upgrade setuptools pip

Then install relevant development requirements:

#. pip install -r rnd_requirements.txt # if such a file exists
#. pip install -r requirements.txt
#. pip install -r tests/requirements.txt

Once you have finished your changes, please provide test case(s), relevant documentation
and update CHANGELOG.rst.

.. note::

    As to rnd_requirements.txt, usually, it is created when a dependent
    library is not released. Once the dependecy is installed
    (will be released), the future
    version of the dependency in the requirements.txt will be valid.


How to test your contribution
------------------------------

Although `nose` and `doctest` are both used in code testing, it is adviable that unit tests are put in tests. `doctest` is incorporated only to make sure the code examples in documentation remain valid across different development releases.

On Linux/Unix systems, please launch your tests like this::

    $ make

On Windows systems, please issue this command::

    > test.bat

How to update test environment and update documentation
---------------------------------------------------------

Additional steps are required:

#. pip install moban
#. git clone https://github.com/moremoban/setupmobans.git # generic setup
#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-commons.git commons
#. make your changes in `.moban.d` directory, then issue command `moban`

What is pyexcel-commons
---------------------------------

Many information that are shared across pyexcel projects, such as: this developer guide, license info, etc. are stored in `pyexcel-commons` project.

What is .moban.d
---------------------------------

`.moban.d` stores the specific meta data for the library.

Acceptance criteria
-------------------

#. Has Test cases written
#. Has all code lines tested
#. Passes all Travis CI builds
#. Has fair amount of documentation if your change is complex
#. Please update CHANGELOG.rst
#. Please add yourself to CONTRIBUTORS.rst
#. Agree on NEW BSD License for your contribution



License
================================================================================

New BSD License

Commit message:

:egg: :ferris_wheel: 0.5.13. fix #53, related to #61, #60 and https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xls/issues/30

README.rst, after:

================================================================================
pyexcel-io - Let you focus on data, instead of file formats
================================================================================

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pyexcel/pyexcel.github.io/master/images/patreon.png
   :target: https://www.patreon.com/pyexcel

.. image:: https://api.bountysource.com/badge/team?team_id=288537
   :target: https://salt.bountysource.com/teams/chfw-pyexcel

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/pyexcel/pyexcel-io.svg?branch=master
   :target: http://travis-ci.org/pyexcel/pyexcel-io

.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/pyexcel/pyexcel-io/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/pyexcel/pyexcel-io

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/gitterHQ/gitter.svg
   :target: https://gitter.im/pyexcel/Lobby

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/pyexcel-io/badge/?version=latest
   :target: http://pyexcel-io.readthedocs.org/en/latest/

Support the project
================================================================================

If your company has embedded pyexcel and its components into a revenue generating
product, please support me on `patreon <https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=5537627>`_
or `bounty source <https://salt.bountysource.com/teams/chfw-pyexcel>`_ to maintain
the project and develop it further.

If you are an individual, you are welcome to support me too and for however long
you feel like. As my backer, you will receive
`early access to pyexcel related contents <https://www.patreon.com/pyexcel/posts>`_.

And your issues will get prioritized if you would like to become my patreon as `pyexcel pro user`.

With your financial support, I will be able to invest
a little bit more time in coding, documentation and writing interesting posts.


Known constraints
==================

Fonts, colors and charts are not supported.

Introduction
================================================================================

**pyexcel-io** provides **one** application programming interface(API) to read
and write the data in excel format, import the data into and export the data
from database. It provides support for csv(z) format, django database and
sqlalchemy supported databases. Its supported file formats are extended to cover
"xls", "xlsx", "ods" by the following extensions:

.. _file-format-list:
.. _a-map-of-plugins-and-file-formats:

.. table:: A list of file formats supported by external plugins

   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================
   Package name              Supported file formats  Dependencies     Python versions
   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================
   `pyexcel-io`_            csv, csvz [#f1]_, tsv,                    2.6, 2.7, 3.3,
                            tsvz [#f2]_                               3.4, 3.5, 3.6
                                                                      pypy
   `pyexcel-xls`_           xls, xlsx(read only),   `xlrd`_,          same as above
                            xlsm(read only)         `xlwt`_
   `pyexcel-xlsx`_          xlsx                    `openpyxl`_       same as above
   `pyexcel-ods3`_          ods                     `pyexcel-ezodf`_, 2.6, 2.7, 3.3, 3.4
                                                    lxml              3.5, 3.6
   `pyexcel-ods`_           ods                     `odfpy`_          same as above
   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================

.. table:: Dedicated file reader and writers

   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================
   Package name              Supported file formats  Dependencies     Python versions
   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================
   `pyexcel-xlsxw`_         xlsx(write only)        `XlsxWriter`_     Python 2 and 3
   `pyexcel-xlsxr`_         xlsx(read only)         lxml              same as above
   `pyexcel-odsr`_          read only for ods, fods lxml              same as above
   `pyexcel-htmlr`_         html(read only)         lxml,html5lib     same as above
   ======================== ======================= ================= ==================


.. _pyexcel-io: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-io
.. _pyexcel-xls: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xls
.. _pyexcel-xlsx: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xlsx
.. _pyexcel-ods: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-ods
.. _pyexcel-ods3: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-ods3
.. _pyexcel-odsr: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-odsr
.. _pyexcel-xlsxw: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xlsxw
.. _pyexcel-xlsxr: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xlsxr
.. _pyexcel-htmlr: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-htmlr

.. _xlrd: https://github.com/python-excel/xlrd
.. _xlwt: https://github.com/python-excel/xlwt
.. _openpyxl: https://bitbucket.org/openpyxl/openpyxl
.. _XlsxWriter: https://github.com/jmcnamara/XlsxWriter
.. _pyexcel-ezodf: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-ezodf
.. _odfpy: https://github.com/eea/odfpy


In order to manage the list of plugins installed, you need to use pip to add or remove
a plugin. When you use virtualenv, you can have different plugins per virtual
environment. In the situation where you have multiple plugins that does the same thing
in your environment, you need to tell pyexcel which plugin to use per function call.
For example, pyexcel-ods and pyexcel-odsr, and you want to get_array to use pyexcel-odsr.
You need to append get_array(..., library='pyexcel-odsr').

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] zipped csv file
.. [#f2] zipped tsv file

If you need to manipulate the data, you might do it yourself or use its brother
library `pyexcel <https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel>`__ .

If you would like to extend it, you may use it to write your own
extension to handle a specific file format.




Installation
================================================================================

You can install pyexcel-io via pip:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install pyexcel-io


or clone it and install it:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-io.git
    $ cd pyexcel-io
    $ python setup.py install



Development guide
================================================================================

Development steps for code changes

#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-io.git
#. cd pyexcel-io

Upgrade your setup tools and pip. They are needed for development and testing only:

#. pip install --upgrade setuptools pip

Then install relevant development requirements:

#. pip install -r rnd_requirements.txt # if such a file exists
#. pip install -r requirements.txt
#. pip install -r tests/requirements.txt

Once you have finished your changes, please provide test case(s), relevant documentation
and update CHANGELOG.rst.

.. note::

    As to rnd_requirements.txt, usually, it is created when a dependent
    library is not released. Once the dependecy is installed
    (will be released), the future
    version of the dependency in the requirements.txt will be valid.


How to test your contribution
------------------------------

Although `nose` and `doctest` are both used in code testing, it is adviable that unit tests are put in tests. `doctest` is incorporated only to make sure the code examples in documentation remain valid across different development releases.

On Linux/Unix systems, please launch your tests like this::

    $ make

On Windows systems, please issue this command::

    > test.bat

How to update test environment and update documentation
---------------------------------------------------------

Additional steps are required:

#. pip install moban
#. git clone https://github.com/moremoban/setupmobans.git # generic setup
#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-commons.git commons
#. make your changes in `.moban.d` directory, then issue command `moban`

What is pyexcel-commons
---------------------------------

Many information that are shared across pyexcel projects, such as: this developer guide, license info, etc. are stored in `pyexcel-commons` project.

What is .moban.d
---------------------------------

`.moban.d` stores the specific meta data for the library.

Acceptance criteria
-------------------

#. Has Test cases written
#. Has all code lines tested
#. Passes all Travis CI builds
#. Has fair amount of documentation if your change is complex
#. run 'make format' so as to confirm the pyexcel organisation's coding style
#. Please update CHANGELOG.rst
#. Please add yourself to CONTRIBUTORS.rst
#. Agree on NEW BSD License for your contribution



License
================================================================================

New BSD License
