docs/source/extensions.rst, before:

Working with xls, xlsx, and ods formats
================================================================================

.. note::

   No longer, you will need to do explicit imports for pyexcel-io extensions.
   Instead, you install them and manage them via pip.

Work with physical file
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here's what is needed::

    >>> from pyexcel_io import save_data
    >>> data = [[1,2,3]]
    >>> save_data("test.xls", data)

And you can also get the data back::

    >>> from pyexcel_io import get_data
    >>> data = get_data("test.xls")
    >>> data['pyexcel_sheet1']
    [[1, 2, 3]]


Work with memory file
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here is the sample code to work with memory file::

    >>> from pyexcel_io.manager import get_io
    >>> io = get_io("xls")
    >>> data = [[1,2,3]]
    >>> save_data(io, data, "xls")

The difference is that you have mention file type if you use :meth:`pyexcel_io.save_data`

And you can also get the data back::

    >>> data = get_data(io, "xls") 
    >>> data['pyexcel_sheet1']
    [[1, 2, 3]]

The same applies to :meth:`pyexcel_io.get_data`.


Other formats
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

As illustrated above, you can start to play with pyexcel-xlsx, pyexcel-ods and
pyexcel-ods3 plugins.

.. testcode::
   :hide:

   >>> import os
   >>> os.unlink("test.xls")

Commit message:

Improve reader interface (#90)
* :hammer: improve reader interface

* :hammer: shrink reader code

* This is an auto-commit, updating project meta data, such as changelog.rst, contributors.rst

* :fire: remove redundant functionalitoes, never will use. what's the point

* :books: updated doc string and the tutorial

* :hammer: update import statements

* :microscope: more test coverage

* This is an auto-commit, updating project meta data, such as changelog.rst, contributors.rst

* :green_heart: fix unit test failure

* :books: update reader plugin example

* :lipstick: update coding style

* :books: fix index rst file

* This is an auto-commit, updating project meta data, such as changelog.rst, contributors.rst

Co-authored-by: chfw <chfw@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/extensions.rst, after:

Extend pyexcel-io Tutorial
================================================================================

pyexcel-io itself comes with csv support.

Reader
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Suppose we have a yaml file, containing a dictionary where the values are
two dimensional array. The task is write reader plugin to pyexcel-io so that
we can use get_data() to read it out.

Example yaml data::

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/test.yaml
  :language: yaml
  
Example code::

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/custom_yeaml_reader.py
  :language: python


Writer
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Working with xls, xlsx, and ods formats
================================================================================

.. note::

   No longer, you will need to do explicit imports for pyexcel-io extensions.
   Instead, you install them and manage them via pip.

Work with physical file
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here's what is needed::

    >>> from pyexcel_io import save_data
    >>> data = [[1,2,3]]
    >>> save_data("test.xls", data)

And you can also get the data back::

    >>> from pyexcel_io import get_data
    >>> data = get_data("test.xls")
    >>> data['pyexcel_sheet1']
    [[1, 2, 3]]


Work with memory file
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here is the sample code to work with memory file::

    >>> from pyexcel_io.manager import get_io
    >>> io = get_io("xls")
    >>> data = [[1,2,3]]
    >>> save_data(io, data, "xls")

The difference is that you have mention file type if you use :meth:`pyexcel_io.save_data`

And you can also get the data back::

    >>> data = get_data(io, "xls") 
    >>> data['pyexcel_sheet1']
    [[1, 2, 3]]

The same applies to :meth:`pyexcel_io.get_data`.


Other formats
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

As illustrated above, you can start to play with pyexcel-xlsx, pyexcel-ods and
pyexcel-ods3 plugins.

.. testcode::
   :hide:

   >>> import os
   >>> os.unlink("test.xls")
